Q1: FDB decouples the Transaction Management System and Storage System to allow transaction 
coordinations and data storage to optimized independently based on workload. The TMS handles all 
transaction ordering, conflict detection, commit versioning, durability logging, and other complex 
transaction related tasks. The SS handles the persistent storage, distribution and serving of key-
value data in the database. By separating these two things the system can now recover fast from 
transaction failures by having no need to touch the stored data, scale either the SS or TMS 
without needing to touch the other, and also optimize each layer independentely, saving time and 
effort.

Q2: During a write trasaction in FDB the Resolver is responsible for detecting read-write 
conflicts between concurrent transactions. This check occurs during the commit process after a 
transaction is submitted by the client into the database, but before the mutations are written 
into the LogServers. This is because of FDB using Optimistic Concurrency Control where conflicts 
are resolved at commit phase. Once a conflict is detected though the transaction is aborted and 
the client is told to reattempt it. 

Q3: The read version acts as a snapshot timestamp that determines which version of the database 
the transaction can read, this ensures that the transactions read a stable point-in-time even as 
other transactions commit concurrently. The Resolvers later check if any keys the transaction read 
were modified by a commit that happened after the read version, and this allows conflicts to be 
caught before being written. So this is how FDB is able to garuntee strict serializability wihtout 
needing to lock rows during reads from a transaction.

Q4: Snapshot reads differ from standard reads becuase they do not add keys to the read-set of a 
transaction and so they bypass conflict detection. In Standard reads the accessed keys are added 
to a transaction's read-set so if another transaction modifies any of the keys before the current 
transaction commits, the current transction will abort due to a conflict detection. Since you do 
not get conflict detection for Snapshot reads it is only useful if you are not writing to the row. 
So, it would be good for read-only queries where stale data is acceptable and concurrent writes 
changing data would not fail the transaction, like for example for reading metadata or long-
running analytics.

Q5: FDB claims that recovery is cheap because StorageServers continously pull and apply mutations 
from LogServers during normal operations. So, a majority of the data is already durable on disk 
before any failures happen. LogServers are logs for real-time mutations that the StorageServers 
asynchronously pull to update data. So in a failure, there is no need for a large redo log to 
replay since the system only needs to bring back the Transaction Management layer and let the 
StorageServers catach up to the last committed version from the LogServers, therefore keeping the 
recovery path fast and cheap.
